Mojito Arrow Tests
==================

Mojito has traditionally had a built-in 'mojito test' command which is being
migrated to leverage Arrow, a Yahoo!-developed multi-type testing harness.

The files in this directory tree represent Arrow tests constructed for Mojito.
The unit and func directories contain 'mirrors' of the source directory from
Mojito so that unit tests for a component found in source/lib/app/autoload are
found in unit/lib/app/autoload. Functional tests are under the func directory.

Test files begin with a 'test-' prefix but otherwise match the name of the file
they are testing. For example, unit tests for the mojit-proxy.client.js file are
found unit/lib/app/autoload/test-mojit-proxy.client.js.

The 'base' subdirectory here contains files which provide baseline functionality
which is leveraged in specific unit and functional tests. Files in this
directory are described in detail later in this document.


Test Descriptors
================

Arrow uses test descriptor files in JSON format to describe unit tests and their
parameters. For Mojito we leverage a top-level descriptor file in each of the
unit and func subdirectories which contains references to all the tests within
that subdirectory. A portion of a test_descriptor file is shown below.

[
    {
        "settings": [ "master" ],
        "name" : "mojito-unit-tests",
        "config" : {
        },
        "dataprovider" : {
            "mojito-client.client" : {
                "params" : {
                    "page": "../base/mojito-test.html",
                    "lib": "../../source/lib/app/autoload/mojito-client.client.js",
                    "test" : "./lib/app/autoload/test-mojito-client.client.js"
                }, 
                "group" : "fw,unit"
            },
            "mojit-proxy.client" : {
                "params" : {
                    "page": "../base/mojito-test.html",
                    "lib": "../../source/lib/app/autoload/mojit-proxy.client.js",
                    "test" : "./lib/app/autoload/test-mojit-proxy.client.js"
                }, 
                "group" : "fw,unit"
            }
        }
    },
    {
        "settings": [ "environment:development" ]
    }
]

From a test configuration perspective the most interesting sections are the
"config" and "dataprovider" objects which provide common parameters and test
definitions respectively.

Each test description within the dataprovider object is named by convention to
match the name of the file-under-test. In the event of a file with an identical
name in different portions of the tree a prefix of the directory path sufficient
to make the name unique should be used. For example, the lib/app/autoload file
mojito-client.client.js is tested with a test name of 'mojito-client.client'
while the app/mojits/HTMLFrameMojit/controller.server.js file is tested using a
test name of HTMLFrameMojit/controller.server'.

Individual tests are described using two common properties: params, and group.

The group property is used to categorize the test into one or more types. For
our purposes the common types are 'unit' or 'func' combined with 'fw', 'app', or
'mojit'. Typically group settings should combine two group names separated with
a comma and _no space_ as shown in the example above.

The params property is an object containing specific parameters. The three of
interest to us are "page", "lib", and "test".

The "page" setting for each unit test refers to the mojito-test.html file. The
mojito-test.html file is a pure HTML file which loads common libraries (yui
3.5.1, yui-test, and mojito-test) which ensure that each file-under-test has an
isolated context in which to execute. [NOTE we're investigating how to properly
default to a common page to 'dry' this up].

The "lib" property examples point simply to the individual file-under-test,
usually found in the source/lib tree. It is a convention that there SHOULD BE NO
OTHER LIB FILES necessary to unit test a particular file. The need for any other
lib (or commonlib) file indicates an unmocked dependency or a bug in the file
(such as failure to declare all 'requires').

The "test" property should point to the test file itself, typically found in a
set of parallel subdirectories to the file-under-test.


Test Files
==========

A unit test file will follow a consistent pattern of the form:

/*
 * Copyright (c) 2011-2013, Yahoo! Inc.  All rights reserved.
 * Copyrights licensed under the New BSD License.
 * See the accompanying LICENSE file for terms.
 */


/*jslint anon:true, sloppy:true, nomen:true, node:true*/
/*global YUI*/


/*
 * Test suite for the mojito-client.client.js file functionality.
 */
YUI({useBrowserConsole: true}).use(
    'mojito-client',
    'test',
    function(Y, NAME) {

        var suite = new Y.Test.Suite("mojito-client.client tests"),
            A = Y.Assert;

        suite.add(new Y.Test.Case({

            setUp: function() {
                this.mojitoClient = new Y.mojito.Client();
            },

            "test constructor": function() {
                var client = this.mojitoClient;
                A.isObject(client);
            }
        }));

        Y.Test.Runner.add(suite);
    }
);

The copyright and jslint directives should be retained and not altered. Yes,
test files should not contain lint, they're still code :).

The YUI.use() function is leveraged to 'require' the file-under-test's module
content and define the 'test' operation via the function in the third parameter.

A common test should create a Y.Test.Suite instance, optionally define shared
variables (the example defines 'A' as an alias for Y.Assert), populate the
suite with one or more tests, and finally add the suite to the Y.Test.Runner.


Test Execution
==============

To run the unit tests you must first start the arrow_server process:

$ arrow_server

Second, for client-side testing you'll need to start selenium. In the example
below you'll want to replace the jar file version with your version.

$ java -Dwebdriver.firefox.profile=default -jar /usr/local/src/selenium/selenium-server-standalone-2.22.0.jar"

Once the two server processes are running it's recommended that you open a
browser on the WebDriver hub and create a session you can reuse. Navigate your
browser (Firefox is a good choice here) to http://localhost:4444/wd/hub and
create a session. Use Firefox as the browser for best results (and so you can
leverage FireBug to help debug your tests as needed).

With a session running enter the following command, substituting the specific
descriptor file name you prefer:

arrow --driver=selenium --reuseSession=true
     ./unit/lib/app/addons/ac/test_descriptor.json

If you want to test only framework tests you can add --group=fw to the command.

If you want to run a specific test you can add --test={testname} to the command.


base File Overview
==================

mojito-test.html
----------------

A simple html file which includes yui-3.5.1, yui-test.js, and mojito-test.js,
the three common library files isolated unit tests will require. This file is
typically referenced in test descriptor files as a "page" property or on the
arrow command line via the --page parameter.

mojito-test.js
--------------

A set of common utility functions which provide test capability including
common mock objects and common test infrastructure.

This file specifically handles add() operations for the mojito elements
typically referenced in file-under-test 'requires' blocks so these files can be
loaded and tested in true isolation.

In addition, this file provides a set of common mocking functions which can be
used in test files to quickly create mocks for common Mojito objects.

This file is loaded after yui-3.5.1.js and yui-test.js but before any "lib" and
"test" files defined in the test descriptor files.

yui-3.5.1.js
------------

An unminified snapshot of YUI 3.5.1 for setting baseline YUI functionality. This
file is referenced first in the <head> of mojito-test.html. The value of this
file is that it ensures all tests work with a common, debugger-friendly, version
of the YUI framework.

yui-test.js
-----------

Required to work around a current Arrow bug which fails to properly load the
test module. This file is loaded after yui-3.5.1.js and before mojito-test.js in
the <head> of mojito-test.html.

